Rintaro Tsumugi: A "Model" Confession

. . . . . . I love you. 
I considered keeping things between us
Just the way they are.

Since to me, even the smallest thing,
Like seeing you smile,
Is more than enough.
And I didn't want to trouble you,
Considering our school don't get along.

. . . But at that time with the sparklers,
When I thought about the time we spent together ending,
I felt . . .
really, really lonely. 

And that's when I realized . . .
"Ah, this is what people who are going out feel . . . "
And before I realized it,
The words came out of my mouth . . .

I'm fully aware that what I'm telling you is super, super selfish. 
I'm surprised at myself for even doing this.
And I know that it's really, inconsiderate of me.
. . . . . .
But still, I don't want things to stay this way.
Because if "going out" means spending lots of time with someone special,
With someone who gives you strength and courage, 
Then I want it. 

I want to be with you more.
Will you go out with me?

~

09-23-2023: Deep Blue Walk

The fact that you are miserable is because you tried so hard and failed,
but always remember the only thing we can do is try.
Trying and struggling is often the only thing we can do,
and often times it leads to an inevitable failure.

Feeling every emotion, not necessarily understanding them,
is important for being fulfilled in life, to take few regrets into the afterlife.
Joy makes me happy in the short term, but it comes with the cost of regretting
what could've been if we tackled the complexities of every other emotion.

From Your Lie in April, Kousei Arima told me,
"I keep going, practicing through all the pain, suffering, and hatred from everyone around me,
for those few moments when I touch everyone with my emotions, and exit stage with smiles on their faces."
Even if everyone around you seems like they're against you,
as long as you expressed yourself for that special someone to hear,
that is enough to validate who you've become.

What do you seek from love?
Why was your time so dissatisfactory?

~

Kaguya-Sama 1: "True love" is a lazy expression.

This statement isn't meant to deny the existence of true love,
but rather, it's meant to shed light on the reality of how our culture of
"true love" operates on a basis of calculation and self-interest.

From "waiting for a fated encounter" to "just being yourself",
those who but into these ideals often find a harsh reality waiting for them.
The idea of waiting for your perfect partner to come and find you first is an
obsolete fantasy, and ought to be done away with.

Love isn't something you get, it's something you fight for.

~

Kaguya-Sama 2: Those who hide their lies are more determined than those who don't lie at all.

Lying is just another form of communication.
That said, it's a tool that carries a high degree of risk.

By wielding it correctly, you can minimize wasted effort, while maximizing
your own returns. However, having your lies exposed can hurt the people
involved, and lead to a permanent loss of trust. If you're planning to lie under
the assumption that a simple apology is enough to patch everything up if
you're caught, then you shouldn't lie at all.

Those who choose to lie must be sure that their lies never come to light.

~

Kaguya-Sama 3:
The wise need only a decade to decipher the truth,
while the foolish need centuries.
The wise need centuries to decipher love,
but the foolish have understood it from the start.

Many idioms draw a comparison between the foolish and the wise,
and it's a motif that this series has touched on as well. In these comparisons,
the fools are usually described as "stupid", but as it turns out, the stupider
they are, the better things tend to turn out for them.

Oftentimes, those who spend an eternity thinking over a decision will
end up finding that thier final conclusion is nothing more than the simplest
approach. Meanwhile, those who never bothered to think and went with the
simplest approach to begin with will often reach the same conculsion first.

~

Kaguya-Sama 4: 
Is the core of human nature rooted in reason or desire?
Regardless, love is rooted in both.

As a species, humanity is abound with both reason and desire.
As such, love, being rooted in both, presents a perfect window into
the core of human nature.
You can often tell what kind of person someone is by watching how
they approach love.

From those who jump straight into things, to those who are too timid
to do anything, to those who find a balance between both extremes,
there's one thing they all share:
Everyone is brimming with both reason and desire.

~

Kaguya-Sama 5: 
The true form of love is fear.
Once you no longer fear your partner, your love fades alike.

Love is something that fades with time.
This is due to the fact that humans, by their very nature, are prone to
experiencing boredom, and are constantly in search of new stimuli. In order
to slow down the rate of this "boredom", it's essential not to know too much.

We often romanticize the idea of knowing everything there is to know
about your partner, but in reality, this can sometimes have the opposite effect.
After all, the desire to learn more about one's partner is what truly forms the
cornerstone of "love".

~

Kaguya-Sama 6: The goddess of love blesses the fast, not the pure.

The majority of all "ideal partners" have already been taken,
and if they aren't, it's only a matter of time before someone asks them out.
The type of person we generally consider to be an ideal partner doesn't tend
to break up once they start seeing someone, so if you end up letting your
chance slip by, a second chance might never come.

The game of love is rigged against those who prefer to play the long game.

~

Kaguya-Sama 7: Humans can learn to love without ever having been loved.

If a baby swallow never has a chance to learn how to fly from its parents,
it will sometimes end up flying into a cliff and dying.

But what about humans? Does a child who has never known the love
of their parents end up never knowing how to love someone else?

Of course not. Our world is overflowing with the undirected, unconditional love.
Take the world of literature, for example: the majority of all published books
are full of love for their readers.

In our modern-day civilization, it's hard not to be loved in one way or another.

~

Kaguya-Sama 8: 
Everyone fears being the first to act...
But someone has to do it.

It's easy to give in to that fear, and simply do nothing.

However, most tragedies are borne from inaction. Think about how
many situations there have been, where countless people could've been
saved "if only" someone had done something. This is true even all the
way down to the smallest group of people.

In the context of romance, even if two people have mutual feelings for
each other, someone has to act first, lest their feelings be washed away
by the unstopping river of time.

~

Kaguya-Sama 9: If there's no right way to love, then all love is wrong.

In our modern-day society, everyone's set of perspectives
and personal values has become so diverse that it's impossible
to find a form of love that one can call "correct".
However, looking at it the other way, that means all love is wrong.
And there's nothing wrong with that.

There doesn't have to be one right way to love.

However, love is what makes life so interesting.

Love is a pain. It's bothersome, risky, and absurd,
with no right or wrong way to go.
But if that's the case, why do so many people make the
foolish choice to pursue it to no end?

Ultimately, it's because it's fascinating. We pursue love because
it's what brings color into our lives. In one sense, making that foolish
choice could be the one truly correct choice in life.

~

Kaguya-Sama 10: The mask you wear changes your true self, for better or for worse.

Those who put on a facade will oftentimes find that facade
becoming a part of who they really are.
In the process of acting nice, they become a nicer person.
In the process of acting strong, they end up a stronger person.

Of course, that goes both ways.

~

Kaguya-Sama 11: In knowing how to live, one knows to die.
And in knowing how to die, one can know how to live.

In other words, those who don't know how they want to die
also don't know how to live their life.
Those who seek a simple, uneventful death will often seek
a similarly uneventful life.

Please, think about how you truly want to live your life,
and how you want to die.

~

Kaguya-Sama 12: "True love" is an expression of delusion and fantasy.

As this story has progressed over time, it has correspondingly come
to illustrate how the idea of "true love" is empty and hollow at its core,
and this statement serves as a reflection of that.

However, reality and fiction are separate, and things don't progress
the same way they do in stories.

~

Kaguya-Sama 13:
The first to uncover the truths of the universe will be
the mathematicians who have never stopped searching.
The first to uncover the truths of the heart will be those
who have never stopped thinking.

This series has revolved around a central theme of "constantly trying to
outthink each other". The act of "thinking" is humanity's attempt to come up
with the best possible decision in a world completely dominated by random
chance.

Those who never stop pursuing the truth will eventually be granted the truth.
May the thinkers of this world be blessed.

~