08-28-2023: Deep Blue Walk

The fact that you are miserable is because you tried so hard and failed,
but always remember the only thing we can do is try.
Trying and struggling is often the only thing we can do,
and often times it leads to an inevitable failure.

Feeling every emotion, not necessarily understanding them,
is important for being fulfilled in life, to take few regrets into the afterlife.
Joy makes me happy in the short term, but it comes with the cost of regretting
what could've been if we tackled the complexities of every other emotion.

From Your Lie in April, Kousei Arima told me,
"I keep going, practicing through all the pain, suffering, and hatred from everyone around me,
for those few moments when I touch everyone with my emotions, and exit stage with smiles on their faces."
Even if everyone around you seems like they're against you,
as long as you expressed yourself for that special someone to hear,
that is enough to validate who you've become.

What do you seek from love?
Why was your time so dissatisfactory?

~

09-10-2023: Violet-Tinted Glasses

Violet Evergarden was developed with no parents,
raised with no knowledge of love or emotions,
created solely for the purpose of fulfilling orders.
She is the most inhuman a person can ever be,
and yet everyone loves her because she has an intense drive to become,
motivated by a pure and selfish curiosity, cultivated through a selfless way.

Currently, I walk down the path of Gilbert.
While it is true he made Violet suffer by putting her in the middle of the battlefield,
and how he was never the direct cause of Violet's transformation into humanity,
it was his pure and selfish desire to raise the human weapon,
and give her the tools necessary to develop her own autonomy.

On top of that, the selflessness he exhibited gave Violet the motivation to do something with her life,
in addition to an undying gratitude for his kind nature and personal sacrifice,
which transformed into a candidate for the so-called "true love."
Being who you are has the potential to transform others into greater things.

He believed the outcome of his work was a complete failure.
Violet was unable to find her own freedom,
and was hopelessly attached to him for the entire duration of the war.
He saw himself only as the sum of his outcomes, and saw others through their intentions.
Judging yourself by your outcomes and others by their intentions is impossible,
since only the reverse is tangible to people. We must find a happy medium.

You must remember that your pure but selfish goal is to discover meaning from within,
by putting smiles on other people's faces.
This is unique to you because it gives you meaning;
not the gym, not a girl, not money. And that's what people, and I, love about me.

~
